Today, we present the third program in a new series on forest conservation featuring Bill Scott, Forest Ranger. A scene
is a rocky ledge high above the little town of Fairview, just outside of Beaver Dam Forest. Ranger Bill Scott and his
young assistant, Sam, are sitting on the big rock, taking it easy. They have just finished a sandwich lunch after a hard
morning's work of exploring and mapping the land about them. Now as we join them, Sam reaches into his pocket, pulls out
his harmonica, moistens his lips, and starts to play. Ranger Bill, puffing on his pipe, smiles at the music, and yet it's
obvious his thoughts are elsewhere. He keeps looking off to the north, where a strange formation of dark clouds has
begun to take shape. His smile suddenly gives way to a tightening of his lips as he expertly pounds out his pipe ashes upon
the rock and crushes them with the heel of his boot. A slight frown creases his now serious face. But Sam, not noticing,
plays on.
There. Now that that's out of my system, I'm ready to go to work again, Ranger Bill. Well, I'm afraid we're through here
for today, Sam. But I thought we were going to put the full day in on this survey for the Fairview Town Council. Well, it'd
be foolish to get started again with that storm coming up. Say, I hadn't noticed it before. Could be a bad storm, too, huh,
Ranger Bill? Maybe. Maybe. And it's a local one, unfortunately. And from what we've seen of this watershed area, a local
storm won't help things much, will it? After the general rains we've had, too. You're right, Sam. All this watershed
land above Fairview has been suffering some pretty rough treatment through the years. There's been too much timber cut
off. The range areas have been overgrazed. And that big fire that whipped through here last year didn't help a bit
either. Just like that Rockville area, isn't it, Ranger Bill? Golly, I'll never forget that flood last summer and the
way we kept the water out of the sawmill. No, that's a bit different, Sam. The conditions are about the same, but there's
no big man-made reservoir between this highland and Fairview, remember? The folks at Rockville had plenty of time to
get out of town before the dam gave way. Yes, it's different here. But I don't understand, Ranger Bill. Well, look, Sam,
the danger of a terrible flash flood building up here and rushing down on Fairview with hardly any warning is very great.
You know, it doesn't take much when the soil is poor and protective covering of grass, bushes, and trees is almost gone.
One heavy downpour of rain sometime and look out. But Fairview's had other floods in the past. That's why the town
council plans to do something about it, isn't it? Mm-hmm. You told me that it has cost them plenty to repair the damage to
roads and bridges and homes each time. That's really why we're here. Yes, Sam. Mayor Arnold and the Fairview town
council made up their minds years ago to buy up all of this tax-delinquent, clear-cut, burned and eroded land here on the
watershed. To plant it all up and make a community forest out of it. But as so often happens, they haven't done much more
than that. I hoped our survey here would help, Sam, and yet I don't know. Wow, it's really going to rain, isn't it? See, I
just felt the first drop. Let's get out of here, Ranger Bill. I want to radio Joe on Hawk Tower first. You know, Sam, it's a
fine idea for a ranger to let somebody know where he is and what he's doing all the time. Yes, sir. It's a good thing we've
got the radio hooked up inside the truck cab. Come on, let's get in before we get soaked. Okay. I'll turn the set on and let
her warm up a bit. There we are. It's raining hotter and hotter every minute. Think we're in for a cloudburst, Ranger
Bill? It looks that way, Sam. Well, I'm going to try Hawk Tower. SP-7 to Hawk Tower. SP-7 to Hawk Tower. Come in, Hawk
Tower. Hawk Tower back to SP-7. Come in, Ranger Bill. Boy, his signal's fine. Hello, Joe. Looks like our work here is
washed up for today. We'll be heading back to the Ranger Station. You have anything to report? Come in. That must be a bad
storm where you and Sam are. I can see the heavy black clouds from the tower. It's clear and dry here. I have nothing to
report. Oh, oh, no. No, wait. I almost forgot. June won't be with us for supper tonight. She called the tower and said
she's going to Fairview to spend the night with her friend, Penny Perkins. Penny's folks are away. Did you get that? Come
in. Did you see that lightning flash, Ranger Bill? Say, isn't it dangerous using the radio? Say, let's get out of here,
huh? In a few minutes, Sam. Okay, Joe, I'll try to call you later. SB7, clear with Hawk Tower. Hawk Tower off. Oh, so June's
headed for Fairview, is she? If we don't get started soon, Ranger Bill, we'll be floating down Devil's Run. There's
water under our car wheels right now. We're on our way, Sam.
Hey, where are you going? The road to the ranger station is off the other way. Well, I've changed my mind about going back
to the station. But why? Well, boy, I just don't like the way things look, that's all. But you're heading right down along
Devil's Run, Ranger Bill. That's right. There's an old logging road down the ravine, Sam. It might get us to Fairview
faster than any other road we could take. What do you mean? It might get us there faster. Well, I haven't been over it in
some time, Sam. There may be a tree across it or something. Worth a chance, though, with a storm building up every minute.
Hmm, this road runs pretty close to the stream in places, doesn't it? See, that's funny. There was no stream on Devil's
Run this morning. Rainwater has to go somewhere, Sam. With most of the forest covering gone, well, what's to hold it
back? Golly, I see what you mean. I've got to speed this truck up a bit. Holy smoke, the water's building up too, Ranger
Bill. What you're witnessing, Sam, is the beginning of a flash flood. And I'm afraid this is just the beginning. The
water will really get high downstream. And Fairview is downstream. Yes, and the Perkins place, remember, is right on
the edge of Devil's Run above the town. Say, June might be there. June and Penny Perkins too, Sam. Well, I just hope we get
there in time. The
truck speeds wildly down the rough logging road. Precious minutes pass by. Meantime, far downstream, the
accumulation of runaway rainwater from all parts of the overcut, overgrazed and burned watershed fills up into a
frightening flood, overflowing the banks of Devil's Run. It fills the basement and beats away at the bottom floor of the
Perkins home. It throws huge rocks and uprooted trees against the bridge that ties the main highway to the town of
Fairview. Here and there, water covers the narrow wood grove, but the ground beneath is hard and the truck moves on and on
through the water.
Finally, the way is easier. The road dips downward and just out of reach are the swollen waters of Devil's Run. Won't be
long now, Sam. We're almost there. Golly, look at that high water, will you? Good thing we're above Devil's Run. Say,
it's not raining very hard anymore. Yeah, but there's more water coming down out of the hills every minute, though. Oh.
That's got me worried, Sam. I don't mind telling you. You mean you're worried about June and Penny? Perkins Place is just
across Devil's Run. The water must be very high right there now. There's only one way to get across. That's the bridge,
and I'm wondering... Holy smoke! Look, Ranger Bill. What? Up ahead. Oh, yes, I see. Two people right on the road near the
edge of the rising water. They're waving at us to stop. It's June, Ranger Bill. One of them is June, but that's not Penny
with her. It's a man. It's the mayor of Fairview. Yeah, Mayor Arnold. Right across the flood from them is the Perkins
place. Golly, where is Penny? I'd better stop the car before I skid into them.
Hi there, June. Hello, Mayor Arnold. Oh, Uncle Bill, I'm so glad you're here. Ranger, this is bad, mighty bad. Where's
Penny, June? She's there, over there across Devil Drunk, in her house. Holy smoke, that place is almost underwater.
We've got to get that girl out of there. Come on, let's drive down to the bridge and try getting across to her. Oh, the
bridge washed out, Uncle Bill. I couldn't get across. That's right, Ranger. I met this young lady on this side of the
bridge just before it collapsed. I see. I was checking on the flood. Well, sir, most of the folks are working right in
town. I don't believe any of them realize Miss Perkins is trapped in her home, and we can't get word to them. Oh, Uncle
Bill, what are we going to do? There now, June, we'll figure something out. Golly, if you only had your new horse, Sparks,
here, Ranger Bill, he could swim you across, I bet. Yes, I think Sparks could do it at that. Sam, you've given me an idea.
Ranger, if you can get that young lady out of there. Why, the whole town of Fairview will never forget it. No, sir. You've
got my word as mayor for that. How about doing something about those hills back up there that caused this year after year?
How about that community forest, Mayor? Anything, Ranger. I promise that I'll do anything for you. Sam, get that rope
out of the truck and hurry. Yes, sir. Look, Uncle Bill, they're at Penny's house. That water's already up to the second
floor, and it's still going up. That's not what I mean. Look, there's a white sheet of something being waved up and down
from that bedroom window. Good. Penny must see us, then. Here's the rope, Ranger Bill. Will it be long enough? I think so.
Now listen, all of you. I'm going to tie one end of this rope to my belt and try to get across to Penny. Now, you three will
have to drag us back through the water if I make it. Now, tie the other end to a tree, Sam. I'm going to take off my shirt and
these heavy boots. But, Uncle Bill, you can't swim across there. The current is too strong. I'm ready now. No, I know
that, June. I'm going upstairs a ways and let the current work me to Penny's house as I swim. Good man, let me do it at that.
Well, here goes. And keep a tight hold on that rope, do you hear? Good luck, Ranger. Yes, Uncle Bill, good luck. Oh, golly,
he's going way upstream, isn't he? He's not underestimating the strength of the current, that's all. There he goes into
the water. Boy, what a dive. Now he's swimming. Man, what powerful strokes. He doesn't seem to be making much headway,
though. Don't say that, girl. He'll make it. I know he will. Oh, you bet he will. Look, he's headed right for the place. Oh,
please, please, make it work, Uncle Bill. Please. He's done it. Hooray. He's done it. Look, he's right over the front
porch now. There. Look, he's swimming toward the window where the white sheet is. Look, Penny's coming out of the
window. Ranger Bill's tying the rope around her waist, too. He's waving at us. He wants us to start pulling. Come on, now.
Get a good tight grip on it. All right, now. Pull. There. Pull. That's it. They're coming. We're doing it. Swirl. Pull. Be
careful. Penny's underwater. No, no. The ranger's lifting her up as high as he can. Come on now. Just a little walk. Oh,
hard. Come on. Oh, boy. Here they come. All right. Hold on. Don't pull anymore. They're standing up. Penny, she looks all
in. No wonder. That was tough going. Say, Ranger Bill has lifted her up in his arm. He's carrying her into shore. Nice
going, Ranger. Nice work. Uncle Bill, what's the matter with Penny? Her eyes, they're closed, and her face is so pale. I
think she's fainted, that's all, June. Put her down now. There. Now keep your eye on her, June. Got to get her to a warm
place as soon as we can. Sam, get the truck, will you? We'll drive to Tom Glover's ranch outside the flood area. Here's
your shirt, Ranger Bill, and I'll be right back. Ranger Scott? Yes, Mayor Arnold? I meant what I said, Ranger. We're
going to take over that watershed land. We're going to put in some emergency trenches, plant grass and trees. We're
going to have a community forest here, believe me. We're going to tame the devil in Devil's Run, and we'll have you to
thank for it. Well, that's fine, Mayor. Someday your children and their children will be thanking you for making
Fairview a safer and happier and better place to live in. A community forest can do that, Mayor. Well, here comes Sam now.
Look, Penny is opening her eyes. Are you all right, Penny? Oh, there, there, Penny. Don't say a word. Just lie quietly.
You'll be fine. All right, Mayor. Give me a hand here. June, you ride in front with me and old Penny. Sam, hop on and back.
Right, Ranger Bill? Well... We're all set. So long, Mayor. Goodbye, Ranger. And God bless you. And
so, Fairview has finally learned its lesson. And Mayor Arnold has taken it to heart. You have just heard the third in a new
series of programs on forest conservation with Bill Scott, Forest Rangers. Don't fail to hear next week's story when
our friends ride the range in search of a terrible killer on the loose. Ranger Bill's fine horse, Sparks, has a part in the
adventure. Until then, adios, so long for a while. Bill Scott, forest ranger, comes to you with the cooperation of the
Forest Service, U.S. Department of Agriculture. Bill Scott is written by Bill Burgothen and produced for radio by Van
Rensselaer Brokaw. Your narrator has been Al Reilly. The
End